# Installing an Editor

To create a program the first thing required, computer aside, is a place to write the code. Although you could write it down in something as simple as Notepad, it is helpful to use an **editor**. Using an editor makes life easier because it comes with features to help you write code faster and in a more organized way.  
Depending on the language another program may be needed that makes the code runnable: a **compiler**. This type of program translates the code of a particular language to binary instructions for the computer's central processing unit (CPU). In addition, developers often use a **debugger** to perform test-runs of a program at various moments to see if everything is working as expected. For basic applications debugging can be achieved simply by running the program and viewing the outputs on a screen, to check if the desired results are there. However, for larger applications, where many variables and components are interacting, the use of a debugger becomes more important.

The three parts of a developer's toolkit described above are often bundled together in something called an _Integrated Development Environment_ (**IDE**). Using an IDE for a specific language is helpful because it tends to allow faster coding after an initial learning curve, better debugging options and the use of advanced language-specific features such as code autocompletion. Examples: Anaconda (Python IDE), IntelliJ (Java IDE)  
Another approach is to use an extensible editor that can work as an IDE by installing extensions of choice. Such an editor will have basic support for most languages but features such as debugging will need to be installed separately. Visual Studio Code is an example of this type of editor.

In the end, what editor you choose is up to personal preference. For the most commonly used features any editor will do. Find one that suits your style, and get ready to write some code :)
